# Project - Investigate an IMDb Movie Dataset
### Dataset Description 
>* id                  -->       Unique Id for the movie.
>* imdb_id             -->       IMDB Id for the movie.
>* popularity          -->       Indicates the popularity of the movie. Higher the number, higher the popularity.
>* budget              -->       Budget spent for the movie.
>* revenue             -->       Revenue generated by the movie.
>* original_title      -->       The title of the movie.
>* cast                -->       These are the cast for the movie separated by '|' symbol.
>* homepage            -->       Url for the movie web page.
>* director            -->       Director of the movie.
>* tagline             -->       Short tagline that comes with the title.
>* Keywords            -->       These are the keywords for the movie separated by '|' symbol  
>* overview            -->		A brief description of the movie plot.						
>* runtime             -->       Length of the movie in minutes.
>* genres              -->       Genre of the movie separated by '|' symbol.
>* production_companies-->       Production companies separated by '|' symbol.
>* release_date        -->       Date of release of the movie in mm/dd/yy format.
>* vote_count          -->       Number of votes for the movie.
>* vote_average        -->       Average votes for the movie.
>* release_year        -->       Year of release of the movie in yyyy format.
>* budget_adj          -->       Adjudsted budget for the movie.
>* revenue_adj         -->       Adjusted revenue generated by the movie.

## Question(s) for analysis:
> Research Question 1: Does the budget and revenue have any impact on ratings?

> Research Question 2 (Is there any relationship between revenue and the weekend of release? How will this change when we include the popularity?)


## Conclusions

* The ratings of the movies in the dataset are between 2 and 9. The maximum number of movies received a 5.5-6.5 rating. And as   we moved up or down, the frequency reduced.
* Homepage and tag line do not have any impact on the rating of these movies.
* Majority of the movies in the dataset have budget between 6 million to 40 million dollars.
* Based on the data, the budget doesn't seem to have any impact on the rating, but more the rating more the revenue.
* When we compare the budget and revenue data against rating, even though the budget for all movies remained almost the same,     the revenue increased to a greater extent.
* 54.1% movies in this dataset were released on Fridays(weekend release) and 45.9% on other days.
* Even though more movies were released on weekends, the revenue and popularity were more for those released on weekdays.

### Limitations
* Around 50% of the movies did not have budget and revenue data and this might have impacted our analysis.